---
title: H-Index
category: Programming
comments: true
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
layout: post
---
Given an array of citations (each citation is a non-negative integer) of a researcher, write a function to compute the researcher's h-index.
<!--more-->

According to the definition of h-index on Wikipedia: "A scientist has index h if h of his/her N papers have at least h citations each, and the other N − h papers have no more than h citations each."

For example, given citations = [3, 0, 6, 1, 5], which means the researcher has 5 papers in total and each of them had received 3, 0, 6, 1, 5 citations respectively. Since the researcher has 3 papers with at least 3 citations each and the remaining two with no more than 3 citations each, his h-index is 3.

Note: If there are several possible values for h, the maximum one is taken as the h-index.

[Leetcode Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/h-index)

## Methodology
One straight-forward method is to sort the citations numbers in descreasing order. Then traverse the sorted array util A[i] < i for value A[i] at position i (or to the array end). Sorting the array takes O(nlogn), and traverse the array takes O(n). So, the overall time complexity of this alogorithm is O(nlogn) (Sortting can be done with O(1) space complexity).

One improvement is that we go around the sorting step with a min-top-heap. We keep the heap updated while traversing the array (like the top-k problem). We insert the meeting value into the heap and check if the heap size is greater than the top/smallest value. If true, remove the top value. Suppose the H-Index of the citation array is k, then he time complexity of this method is O(nlogk). However, we use O(k) extra space to achieve this. If k == O(n), then this method fall back to the sorting method. This method is realized in the following codes.

## Source Code
```C++
class Solution {
public:
    int hIndex(std::vector<int>& citations) {
        std::priority_queue<int, std::vector<int>, std::greater<int> > mheap;
        for (int i = 0; i < citations.size(); ++i) {
            mheap.push(citations[i]);
            while (mheap.top() < mheap.size()) mheap.pop();
        }
        return mheap.size();
    }
};
```
## Related Problem
[Third Maximum Number](/prog/Third Maximum Number)
